# Project Evaluation
Evaluation period 2 September to 1 November

# Goals and expectations

The goal of the project is to design and build a prototype machine that can deburr a gear. It is expected that a vision system will be used to detect different types of gears. In addition, it is necessary to investigate the best way to deburr this type of gears.

Original expectations:
-	Integrating a vision system
-	Applying a Beckhoff PLC
-	Researching ways of deburring
-	Researching the force measurements on the tooling
-	Delivery of a working prototype

# Project Progress

At the beginning of the project, we drew up all the requirements and wishes of the customer. We then discussed with the client what our plans and ideas are. When the complete plan was clear, we presented it to the project supervisor. The project supervisor did not agree with agreements we had made with the client.  
The project supervisor and the client discussed what exactly the goals should be. As a result, the entire project has been delayed. Because we had to revise all the design documents and the project boundaries had become wider. Together with the customer, we set goals so that we could start various tests as soon as possible. So far, we have carried out the following tests:
-	Deburring test: testing different deburring methods 
-	TwinCAT Vision: software IDE testing in combination with an industrial camera
-	OpenCV: software testing for creating a path at the edge of the gear
-	Testing with different cameras and lenses on the gears
Based on the tests, we make choices about what we are going to use for the prototype.

# Communication

-	Project group with client
Communication between the project team and the client is good, we have weekly meetings where we update the client on the project. For example, we discuss the decisions we have made and try to clear up ambiguities. In addition, we are still in contact via e-mail to show certain documents. 
-	Project group with project supervisor
The contact with the project supervisor is rare. With the exception of the progress presentation, the contact moments are also unprepared. After the presentation, we communicated more often because of the change in the project. This was a bit difficult because there was often some time in between when there was contact again.
-	Project group among themselves
The communication between them takes place in several ways. We have several fixed moments a week that we work together physically on the project. In addition, we are in contact via whatsapp and Teams. 
Strengths of the project group
-	Communication within the group is generally good. Weekly meetings are held, and we have fixed project hours where we are together with the whole group and discuss things. This fostered collaboration and ensures that issues are identified and resolved quickly.
-	When certain problems arise, the team showed a good degree of flexibility. Everyone shows initiative to find alternative solutions. 
-	The division of tasks between them is also going well. Everyone has their own part in the project and takes responsibility for it.
Points for improvement of the project group
-	When conducting internal meetings, discussions can sometimes stray too far from the topic. Project members could intervene sooner to get the talk back on track.
-	The software team members had limited experience with advanced automation applications, which proved to be a knowledge gap. The Vision part turned out to take more time than expected.
-	The original timeline proved too ambitious, especially considering that the project was changing at the beginning of the design phase. The team could have better estimated the time needed for the integration of the vision part and the testing of the different parts. The planning should have been more realistic.

# Leadership

The project manager has effectively maintained an overview and monitored progress. The decisions are clear and the team is given the space to solve challenges independently. However, there was occasional ambiguity about who was responsible for specific choices, which led to minor confusions.
Team
The team generally works well together. Each discipline is responsible for its part (Mechanical, electronics, mechatronics and software). Sometimes the language barrier was difficult for the communication of the people. As a result, some things were not discussed or discussed less because not everyone has a good command of the English language. 

# Future improvements 2nd quartile

-	Better track planning with deadlines
-	All team members may need to be more punctual
-	Internal meetings need to be better managed
-	The project group needs to be decided to become more firm
-	The group needs to be on the same page.



```plantuml
